V1 blog post (#104)
kubewarden/kubewarden.io: content/blog/2022/06/v1-release.md

---
title: Kubewarden reaches 1.0.0 release 🎉
authors:
- Flavio Castelli
date: 2022-06-08
---

Today, a year and a half since its conception, we're thrilled to announce
Kubewarden's 1.0.0 release! 🎊 🥳

> Let's take a quick look at the major achievements of the project to see what `v1`

Author: What do you mean? :sweat_smile: Do you have any ideas (git pushes, releases, lines of code,...)

> Let's take a quick look at the major achievements of the project to see what `v1`

Reviewer: Haha, not specific to lines of code. I meant the number of features like X going into alpha, Y going into beta or something like that?

brings both to Policy Authors and Operators.

## Writing policies

> Kubewarden v1 allows Policy Authors to write policies using either Go, Rust, or Swift.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubewarden v1 allows Policy Authors to write policies using any programming language that can generate a WebAssembly module. Such as using Go, Rust, or Swift. More information is available [here](https://webassembly.org/getting-started/developers-guide/). 
```

I think, it's an important element to mention

Author: This is true, but we have SDKs only for these languages

Each language features a rich SDK that simplifies the process of validating and
mutating Kubernetes admission requests.

Creating a new policy can be done quickly by scaffolding one of our official
policy templates projects. New policies created in this way will feature best
practices such as: code linters, unit tests, end to end tests, policy signing

> and publishing. All of that automated using GitHub Actions.

Reviewer: Okay, how about?
```suggestion
and publishing. All of that is automated using GitHub Actions.
```

> and publishing. All of that automated using GitHub Actions.

Author: That's great, thanks!

---
title: Kubewarden reaches 1.0.0 release 🎉
authors:
- Flavio Castelli
date: 2022-06-22
---

> Kubewarden is a policy engine for Kubernetes that is part of CNCF Sandobox.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Kubewarden is a policy engine for Kubernetes that is part of CNCF Sandbox.
```

Reviewer: I would go so far as to change it and break it into two separate sentences as below:
```suggestion
Kubewarden is a policy engine for Kubernetes. The project is a part of [CNCF Sandbox](https://www.kubewarden.io/blog/2022/06/cncf-sandbox-inclusion/).
```

What makes Kubewarden different from other similar projects is the way
policies are written and distributed.

Kubewarden policies can be written both using traditional programming languages
(like Go or Rust) and with Domain Specific Languages (like Rego).
Policies are compiled into [WebAssembly](https://webassembly.org)
modules that are distributed via regular container registries.

> Kubewarden policies are compiled once and, thanks to the flexibility of WebAssembly,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once compiled, Kubewarden policies can then be run on any kind of operating system and architecture
```

> can then be run on any kind of operating system and architecture that is supported

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that is supported by the Kubewarden stack owing to the portability of the WebAssembly framework.
```

All the Kubewarden stack components have [OpenTelemetry](https://opentelemetry.io/)
integration in place. This is used to emit trace events and expose monitoring data.

Thanks to that, policy metrics can be scraped by [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/)
and then shown inside of [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) dashboards, like
[this one](https://grafana.com/grafana/dashboards/15314)
provided by the Kubewarden team.

Finally, Policy Authors can emit OpenTelemetry trace events straight from the policies.
This functionality, like many others, is exposed by Kubewarden's SDKs.
These trace events can then be collected and processed by OpenTelemetry. Finally
the events can be inspected using tools like [Jaeger](https://www.jaegertracing.io/).

This allows both Policy Authors and Operators to have a consistent observability
stack both for Cloud Native applications and Kubernetes policies.

## Software Secure Supply Chains

The topic of [Software Secure Supply Chains](https://www.nist.gov/itl/executive-order-14028-improving-nations-cybersecurity/software-security-supply-chains)
has been gaining momentum during 2021 and has become a high priority topic for
many organizations.

> Kubewarden wants to help Operators to address the challenges posed by Secure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Kubewarden wants to help Operators to address the challenges faced during implementation of Secure
```

> Supply Chains initiatives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Supply Chain initiatives.
```

To do that, Kubewarden leverages the [Sigstore](https://www.sigstore.dev/)

> project to implement software signing and verification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
project while implementing software signing and verification.
```
